## UI/UX FUNDAMENTALS

### What is User Experience and Design (UX)
A user experience (UX) is the sequence of events that take place when a 
person utilizes a product, digital interface, or service. User experience or 
UX is the design to be followed, to begin the design cycle/process. 

User experience design on the other hand is the method used by design teams 
to produce products that give people with relevant and meaningful 
experiences. This includes the design of the full acquisition and integration 
process, including branding, design, usability, and function. UX design is 
the process of discovering user needs and desgining solutions to meet them. 
User experience designers are tasked with creating good experience for the 
users and are involved with the whole acquisition and integration of a 
product, including branding, design, usability, and function.

There are five main principles of UX design to enable the effective usability 
and accessibility of a product are:

- Empathy
The demands of consumers are prioritized in the development of quality UX 
designs. Thus, designers should put themselves in the shoes of their users 
and learn about their daily lives, what issues they need handled, what 
expectations they have when engaging with various goods, and what a 
successful experience looks like to them.

- Strategy
Before beginning any project, it is critical to have a well-defined strategy 
and set of goals that takes into account chosen research methods, preferred 
design and testing systems, and what success looks like for both the user and 
the business.

- Usability
Good designers should provide simple and intuitive goods and services for 
individuals of all ages and abilities.When designing for optimal and seamless 
usability, they should consider behavioral psychology, accessibility, 
affordances, and mental models.

- Inclusivity
Design efforts should include the demands of individuals of different races, 
ages, genders, backgrounds, socioeconomic positions, and other 
characteristics. Outstanding UX design combines the experiences and demands 
of under-represented or disadvantaged groups of people, and may even solve 
their specific challenges.

- Validation
One of the most crucial aspects of UX design is to test proposed solutions with the people who will actually be using them in real life through user testing.

The UX design process is extensive and quite broad and it involves five main processes which are;

- Empathize

- Define

- Ideate

- Prototype 

- Test

With these discussed, it is important to emphasize the benefits of UX Designs 
and designers and those benefits are discussed below:

- Good UX maximizes revenue

- UX designers may assist in increasing corporate efficiency and help improve productivity

- Customer acquisition and retention are boosted by attention to UX design.

In conclusion, User-centered design is an iterative process where you take an understanding of the users and their context as a starting point for all design and development.

### What is User Interface (UI) Design

User interface (UI) design is the process through which designers create interfaces in software or digital devices with an emphasis on appearance or style. Designers strive to design interfaces that are simple to use and enjoyable for users.

The visual design of a product's digital interface, such as an app screen or website, is referred to as user interface (UI) design. It is the process of developing the visual and interactive qualities of a visual experience, ensuring that the interface is both user-friendly and visually beautiful. UI design is a multidisciplinary area that incorporates components from visual design, user experience design, and graphic design.

To be able to make great designs, a UI designer must consider the following:

- Emphasis on Usability and Likeability as users judge designs centered around this.

- User interfaces should also be fun (or at least satisfying and frustration-free).

- UIs should communicate brand values and reinforce users’ trust.

- Keep interfaces simple (with only elements that help serve users’ purposes) and create an “invisible” feel.

- Always provide next steps which users can deduce naturally, whatever their context.

- Use appropriate UI design patterns to help guide users and reduce burdens (e.g., pre-fill forms).


Designing user interface comes in three formats:

- Graphical user interfaces (GUIs)—Users interact with visual representations on digital control panels. A computer’s desktop is a GUI.

- Voice-controlled interfaces (VUIs)—Users interact with these through their voices. Most smart assistants—e.g., Siri on iPhone and Alexa on Amazon devices—are VUIs.

- Gesture-based interfaces—Users engage with 3D design spaces through bodily motions: e.g., in virtual reality (VR) games.

With an interest in User experience and User interface, one must possess several skills of importance and they are:

- Proficiency in popular industry-standard tools such as Sketch, Adobe XD, Figma, and InVision
Knowledge of color theory, UX and interaction design principles, and typography (to name a few).

- A keen eye for aesthetics and sharp attention to detail—to create harmonious, visually appealing designs, and to be able to spot when something looks “off”.

- An interest in people and human behavior. UI design ties in closely with user experience, so the best UI designers work with empathy, keeping humans at the forefront.

- A certain degree of tech know-how. In addition to working with computer-based tools, UI designers must understand how their designs will operate on different platforms, devices, and screen sizes. It’s therefore useful to be a little tech savvy (especially when liaising with developers).

- Collaboration and communication. UI designers rarely work in isolation—you’ll collaborate closely with UX designers, product managers, developers, and content / UX writers, so interpersonal skills are a must!

